qinstall -- a simple installer/updater for SciDAC Lattice QCD libraries

Usage:

Choose a .prf file that you want to use or create a new one (see below).

To install a library do:

qinstall <prf> <package> <version>

<prf> is the name of the .prf file you want to use (without the .prf)
<package> is name of a SciDAC Lattice QCD package
          the current options are: qmp, qio, qla, qdp, qopqdp, qdp++ and chroma
<version> is the version to install

example:

qinstall jlab-6n qdp 1.7.1

will install qdp-1.7.1 using the jlab-6n.prf profile.


INSTALLATION PROCEDURE:

given the example command:

qinstall jlab-6n qdp 1.7.1

qinstall first looks for an existing source directory "qdp-1.7.1" in the
specified source root (/dist/scidac-build/src).  If not found it will
look for the tarball "qdp-1.7.1.tar.gz" in the download directory.  If that
is not found it will attempt to fetch it from the SciDAC website.  The
package is then untarred to create the missing source directory.

Next it looks for a the build directory ("qdp-1.7.1-6n") and creates it if
not found.  It also creates the configure command to be used in the file
"configure-qdp" in the build dir, if it does not already exist.  It then
runs that configure command and then proceeds to "make", "make install"
and optionally "make check".  The outputs of these can be found in the
build dir in "make.log", "make-install.log", and "make-check.log" respectively.

Lastly it creates a symbolic link in the install dir from "qdp" to "qdp-1.7.1".
This allows one to use the version-less link in makefiles to automatically
get the latest version.


CONFIGURATION:

Each .prf file defines a set of directories and the configure templates
to be used for each package along with a few options.
The .prf file is interpereted by bash to set the necessary variables.

The directories needed are:
DLDIR    where the package tarballs are downloaded to
SRCROOT  where the source tarballs are untarred into
BLDROOT  where the package build dirs will be
INSROOT  where the package installation directories will be

Each version of each package will have its own source, build and install
directory under each of the respective root directories.

For example:
$SRCDIR/qmp-2.1.7
$SRCDIR/qio-2.2.0
$SRCDIR/qla-1.6.2
...
and likewise for the build and install dirs.

Each package then has a set of variables like:
qmp=mpi-6n-gcc
qmptag=6n
qmpcheck=yes

The first, "qmp", specifies which configure template will be used to configure
the package of the same name.  These are found in the subdirectory with the
same name as the package.  In this case it will use the file "qmp/mpi-6n-gcc".

The second, "qmptag", specifies an optional tag that will be appended to the
build and install directories.  In this case something like "qdp-1.7.1-6n".
If left blank the build and install dirs will just be like "qdp-1.7.1".

The third, "qmpcheck", specifies whether to run "make check" or not.

The configure templates are just the configure command to run with the
following self explanatory substitutions made:
SRCDIR
INSDIR
QMPDIR
QIODIR
QLADIR
QDPDIR
QDPXXDIR
